EXT. CALIFORNIA DESERT - DAY
We float up a steep scrubby slope. We hear male voices gently
singing "Tumbling Tumbleweeds" and a deep, affable, Westernaccented voice--Sam Elliot's, perhaps:
VOICE-OVER
A way out west there was this
fella, fella I want to tell you
about, fella by the name of Jeff
Lebowski. At least, that was the
handle his lovin' parents gave him,
but he never had much use for it
himself. This Lebowski, he called
himself the Dude. Now, Dude, that's
a name no one would self-apply
where I come from. But then, there
was a lot about the Dude that
didn't make a whole lot of sense to
me. And a lot about where he lived,
like- wise. But then again, maybe
that's why I found the place
s'durned innarestin'.
We top the rise and the smoggy vastness of Los Angeles at
twilight stretches out before us.
VOICE-OVER (CONT’D)
They call Los Angeles the City of
Angels. I didn't find it to be that
exactly, but I'll allow as there
are some nice folks there. 'Course,
I can't say I seen London, and I
never been to France, and I ain't
never seen no queen in her damn
undies as the fella says. But I'll
tell you what, after seeing Los
Angeles and thisahere story I'm
about to unfold-- wal, I guess I
seen somethin' ever' bit as
stupefyin' as ya'd see in any a
those other places, and in English
too, so I can die with a smile on
my face without feelin' like the
good Lord gypped me.
INT. RALPH'S - NIGHT
It is late, the supermarket all but deserted. We track in on
a forty-ish man in Bermuda shorts and sunglasses at the dairy
case. He is THE DUDE. His rumpled look and relaxed manner
suggest a man in whom casualness runs deep.
(CONTINUED)
He feels quarts of milk for coldness and examines their
expiration dates.
VOICE-OVER
Now this story I'm about to unfold
took place back in the early
nineties-- just about the time of
our conflict with Sad'm and the Eyerackies. I only mention it 'cause
some- times there's a man-- I won't
say a hee-ro, 'cause what's a heero?--but sometimes there's a man
... and I'm talkin' about the Dude
here-- sometimes there's a man,
wal, he's the man for his time'n
place, he fits right in there-- and
that's the Dude, in Los Angeles...
and even if he's a lazy man, and
the Dude was certainly that--quite
possibly the laziest in Los Angeles
County.
The Dude glances furtively about and then opens a quart of
milk. He sticks his nose in the spout and sniffs.
VOICE-OVER (CONT’D)
...which would place him high in
the runnin' for laziest worldwide--
but sometimes there's a man...
sometimes there's a man.
CHECKOUT GIRL -
She waits, arms folded.